<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html" lang="en">
<h:head>
    <title>Exaples of EL Exparessions</title>
</h:head>
<h:body>
<h2>Examples of EL Expressions</h2>
<table border="1">
    <thead>
    <tr><td>EL Expression</td><td>Result</td></tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr><td>\${1 > (4/2)}</td><td>${1 > (4/2)}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${4.0 >= 3}</td><td>${4.0 >= 3}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${100.0 == 100}</td><td>${100.0 == 100}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${(10*10) ne 100}</td><td>${(10*10) ne 100}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${'a' lt 'b'}</td><td>${'a' lt 'b'}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${'hip' gt 'hit'}</td><td>${'hip' gt 'hit'}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${4 > 3}</td><td>${4 > 3}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${1.2E4 + 1.4}</td><td>${1.2E4 + 1.4}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${3 div 4}</td><td>${3 div 4}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${10 mod 4}</td><td>${10 mod 4}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${!empty param.Add}</td><td>False if the request parameter named Add is null or an empty string.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${pageContext.request.contextPath}</td><td>The context path.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${sessionScope.cart.numberOfItems}</td><td>The value of the numberOfItems property of the session-scoped attribute named cart.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${param['mycom.productId']}</td><td>The value of the request parameter named mycom.productId.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${header["host"]}</td><td>${header["host"]}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${departments[deptName]}</td><td>The value of the entry named deptName in the departments map.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\${requestScope['javax.servlet.forward.servlet_path']}</td><td>The value of the request-scoped attribute named javax.servlet.forward.servlet_path.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\#{customer.lName}</td><td>#{customer.lName}</td></tr>
    <tr><td>\#{customer.calcTotal('my')}</td><td>#{customer.calcTotal('my')}</td></tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<hr></hr>
<p>In addition to the . and [] operators discussed in Value and Method Expressions, the EL provides the following operators, which can be used in rvalue expressions only:</p>
<ul>
<li>Arithmetic: +, - (binary), *, / and div, % and mod, - (unary)</li>
<li>Logical: and, &amp;&amp;, or, ||, not, !</li>
<li>Relational: ==, eq, !=, ne, &lt;, lt, >, gt, &lt;=, ge, >=, le. Comparisons can be made against other values or against Boolean, string, integer, or floating-point literals.</li>
<li>Empty: The empty operator is a prefix operation that can be used to determine whether a value is null or empty.</li>
<li>Conditional: A ? B : C. Evaluate B or C, depending on the result of the evaluation of A.</li>
</ul>
<hr></hr>
<p>The precedence of operators highest to lowest, left to right is as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>[] .</li>
<li>() (used to change the precedence of operators)</li>
<li>- (unary) not ! empty</li>
<li>* / div % mod</li>
<li>+ - (binary)</li>
<li>&lt; > &lt;= >= lt gt le ge</li>
<li>== != eq ne</li>
<li>&amp;&amp; and</li>
<li>|| or</li>
<li>? :</li>
</ul>
</h:body>
</html>